Change content/docs/dev-and-releng/repository/app/_index.md by teemow at 1752087433 (#359)
giantswarm/handbook: content/docs/dev-and-releng/repository/app/_index.md

---
linkTitle: App
title: Creating a new app repository
description: The canonical way to create a repository for an app to be
  distributed and deployed via the Giant Swarm app platform.
classification: public
---
These instructions will help you create a new app repository based on our [template-app](https://github.com/giantswarm/template-app).

## Prerequisites

- `devctl` latest version

## Bootstrap Command (devctl app bootstrap)

Creates a new app repository from `template-app` with the following features:

> - Creates a new repository from the template-app template
> - Configures sync methods (vendir or kustomize)
> - Sets up patch methods (script or kustomize)
> - Configures CI/CD automatically
> - Creates a pull request with the initial setup

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- new repository based on the `template-app` template
- sync methods configured (vendir or kustomize)
- set up patch methods (script or kustomize)
- CI/CD configured automatically
- pull request with the initial setup in `giantswarm/github`
```

### Example:

```
devctl app bootstrap \
  --name my-app \
  --patch-method script \
  --sync-method vendir \
  --team myteam \
  --upstream-chart helm/upstream \
  --upstream-repo https://github.com/org/repo \
  --github-token-envvar GITHUB_TOKEN
```

### Options:

- `--name`: Name of the app (required)
- `--patch-method`: Method to patch upstream changes (script or kustomize)
- `--sync-method`: Method to sync upstream changes (vendir or kustomize)
- `--team`: Team responsible for the app
- `--upstream-chart`: Path to the upstream chart
- `--upstream-repo`: URL of the upstream repository
- `--github-token-envvar`: Name of environment variable containing GitHub token
- `--dry-run`: Only print what would be done

> After running the command check the PR in `giantswarm/github`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After running the command check the PR in `giantswarm/github`.
```

## Create a container repo

To host container images based on the new repository, [set up registry repositories](https://intranet.giantswarm.io/docs/dev-and-releng/container-registry/) for it.

## Final touches

> - On the repository home page near `About`, click the cog icon to adjust the repository description and tags. Under "Include in the home page" de-select the Packages and Environments options.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- On the repository home page near `About`, click the gear (⚙️) icon to adjust the repository description and tags. Under "Include in the home page" de-select the Packages and Environments options.
```
